## Dog breed recommendations

The [code](https://github.com/aawiegel/Poochr) and [web app](https://poochr-182700.appspot.com/) are available online.

### Summary

Recently, my housemate decided to get a Siberian husky because it is a pretty dog. He didn't realize, though, that huskies are very social and incredibly active even compared to your typical dog. This temperament is not necessarily conducive to his lifestyle, so the situation has not been ideal for either him or the dog (or his house mates.) Based on this, I thought it would be a good idea to come up with a recommendation engine that suggests dogs based on both an image (appearance) and text description (temperament).

<br/>

To do this, I created vector representations of both a dog breed's appearance and temperament and combined them into one recommendation system. The representation of appearance came from a dog breed image classifier trained via transfer learning with the convolutional neural network Xception and weights from ImageNet. For each of the 113 dog breeds included in the image data set, I took the average of the last layer for the images in the test set to create the appearance representations. The representation of temperament came from a dog breed topic model trained on text scraped from several different dog websites and Wikipedia. The resulting breed topic and image vectors were then compared to a user image and text to recommend the three most similar dogs. To help improve the system in the future, I stored the user input in a database and solicited feedback on the quality of the recommendations and possible useful features.
